[DO NOT MERGE] DOCS-12770 lifecycle states (#166)
mulesoft/docs-exchange: modules/ROOT/pages/to-change-raml-version.adoc

== Deploy a New API Asset

> You can deploy an API asset directly into Exchange using the *Publish new asset* button. In the *Publish a new asset* window, the Advanced section enables you to specify the version of the asset in the *Version* field, and the version of the API specification in the *API version* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can deploy an API asset directly to Exchange by using the *Publish new asset* button. In the *Publish a new asset* window, the *Advanced* section enables you to specify the version of the asset in the *Version* field, and the version of the API specification in the *API version* field.
```

Only change the API version when an updated API specification has changes that are not backward compatible from the new version to the old version.

== Change RAML or OAS Version

For RAML and OAS API specifications within Exchange, change the version number from within Exchange using the *Add version* button. 

. From the asset details pane, click *Add version*. 

> . (Required) Select a *Method* for the API specification.

Reviewer: Why are we specifying (Required) when typically all steps are required but those that we word using conditional wording (If you want to...) or "Optionally,..."?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. (Required) Select a *Method* value for the API specification.
```

> . (Required) From *File upload* click *Choose file*. For OAS, choose an OAS file with the .yaml or .json file types. For RAML, choose a RAML file with the .raml file type. Zip files are also accepted with the file to upload residing in the zip file’s root directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. (Required) From *File upload*, click *Choose file*. For OAS, choose an OAS file with the .yaml or .json file types. For RAML, choose a RAML file with the .raml file type. ZIP files are also accepted, with the file to upload residing in the ZIP file’s root directory.
```

> . Specify the *Main file* if the uploaded file is a zip. Otherwise, Exchange uses the same file name as the file you upload. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Specify *Main file* if the uploaded file is a ZIP file. Otherwise, Exchange uses the same file name as the name of the file you upload. 
```

> . (Required) In *Version* , enter a new version for the asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. (Required) In *Version*, enter a new version for the asset.
```

> . (Required) In *the *API version*, enter the version of the API specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. (Required) In *API version*, enter the version of the API specification.
```

> The Version and API version values must agree. You can only choose minor version updates for a given API version. To set a major Version number, also increase the API version. If you choose minor or patch version updates, the API versions should not changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The version and API version values must agree. You can choose only minor version updates for a given API version. To set a major version number, also increase the API version. If you choose minor or patch version updates, the API versions should not be changed.
```

> . (Optional) Select a *Lifecycle state*. Default is *Stable*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. (Optional) Select a *Lifecycle state*. The default is *Stable*.
```

. Click *Publish*

You can also change the version using the *Manage versions* button. See xref:manage-versions.adoc[Manage Versions] for more information.

> Change the version number for RAMLs as described in the next sections.

Reviewer: Going forward, do not refer to other text units except by name, to ensure reusability.

=== Change a RAML Version When you Publish to Exchange

. From Design Center, open your API. No changes are necessary.
. Click *Publish to Exchange*.

> . Change the *API Version* value. You can also change the Asset Version (the version of the Exchange asset).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Change the *API Version* value. You can also change *Asset Version* (the version of the Exchange asset).
```

[[best-practices-api-versioning]]
== Best Practices for API Versioning

> An API should be designed for long term use, but because change is inevitable, the API can never be completely stable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An API should be designed for long-term use, but because change is inevitable, the API can never be completely stable. 
```

> It is important is to manage the changes through a comprehensive versioning 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important is to manage the changes by using a comprehensive versioning 
```

> strategy. This includes a multiple month deprecation schedule and documentation that is up to date and describes the change in sufficient level of detail. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
strategy. This includes a multiple-month deprecation schedule and documentation that is up to date and describes the change in a sufficient level of detail. 
```

Not all changes require a new version. APIs designed for backward compatibility
normally do not require major changes and should use minor or patch changes.

> It is not always possible to design APIs in that way. The table below outlines when to introduce a new version and when a new version is not required. Typically when one clicks *Add new API operation* a minor version increase occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not always possible to design APIs in that way. The following table outlines when to introduce a new version and when a new version is not required. Typically, if you click *Add new API operation*, a minor version increase occurs.
```
